Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture in the PBS lectures.
We learned how can we divide develop our username and password system right.
And we saw how can we call our day planner function and we actually stopped by building our day planner
function.
If you guys are to call the planner function takes the time and hours.
Right.
And here we define kind of a dictionary that has let's say a time 10 to ten program lectures I'm twelve
computer vision and so on so forth and here we're ready to simply compare the time that we've got with
our data dictionary and simply print out our lecture that we should be attending.
Let's see how can we do that.
I mean it's okay for we're going to simply take our task on this court time in daily task
dot Keyes.
So what I'm asking you to do is say okay let's go to the daily task.
Okay.
Dot Keyes if because remember these are the keys right.
These are the values because that's why it's called dictionary called a key value pair.
It's the key and the value associated with it right.
So when I say okay for task time in daily task got keys if you find the time which is sent here to the
function on the score H underscore now is less than or equal to the task on this court time okay.
Well we could do a circuit print printout you should attend and what we could do here.
We could pass along the value associated to the dictionary.
You're right.
We gonna say OK you need to stand daily task which is go into into our dictionary daily tasks.
Right and let's fetch out the task score time which is very associated to that specific task type.
All right.
Please bear in mind that here this is not the only way.
This is actually like kind of a like not not an amazing way of doing it because we don't have kind of
a window right.
We can actually create like you know more complex waves of keep the time but you say between 10 and
let's say 12.
Exactly and so on here.
This is just you know kind of a lazy way of doing it.
We're saying okay at the time let's say let's say the user sent 10 9 for example if the 9 is less than
let's say 10 right then we're gonna print out the daily task is programming lessons on if the user let's
say insert for instance Eleven.
All right.
So we're going to go here compared is eleven less than 10 know is 11 less than twelve yes then it's
a computer vision and so on.
And then we'll get actually we're just going to kind of limiting.
Very limited to let's say between 8:00 a.m. in the morning and 3:00 p.m. in the afternoon.
What we need to do afterwards after we print it out we just need to break.
Right.
We don't need to do anything afterwards.
That's pretty much the function and the function I'm going to turn anything the day planner function
just takes the time compares it to the database that it has and just printed out.
That's pretty much all worried what it does.
Okay.
And then afterwards we're just gonna break it.
All right let's go ahead and test our beautiful code let's run our function first let's see if it works
or not.
Well what a train.
That's good.
And let's go ahead here and let's run this introduce a name so let's try uppercase and let's try y es
K percentage 1 to 3 if you run it well user name and password is not correct.
Axis the night makes complete sense because here the user name was all uppercase.
Right.
Okay let's try one more time.
Let's run again.
And I'm asking you to introduce a name when I say OK it's R Y N and asking for a password.
So going to say OK password is why is K percentage.
One two three four.
For instance let's try just to test if that condition actually does the ending operation or not.
Let's run it.
Well username or password is not correct.
That's perfect.
Now we tested the user name portion and the password portion as well.
And both of them works perfectly.
All right.
Let's run one more time enter user name.
So I'm going to say okay user name is Ryan.
Password is why is key percentage.
One two three.
And Access granted.
That's good.
Now we're here somewhere and the mascot they use it to insert specific time.
So what's the time right now.
I'm going to say let's say the time is let's say eleven o'clock actually.
Let's go to something easy let's go to 9 a.m. and it's press enter.
And here we go.
The function printed out he should attend programming lecture room a which let's go up that's actually
makes complete sense because until 9:00.
And anything below 10:00 right should be authentic programming lecture room.
All right.
And afterwards after we went back from the function day planner what happened is we printed out to the
users basically our our final operation here and that's what we've got here.
So I got you know what went out we had the file and that's the coding exercise you know printing out
the lecture notes from left from the previous lecture.
All right let's test it one more time.
It's tested again and again and again.
Let's introduce a name Ryan let's add why is K percentage 1 2 3.
What's the time right now.
Let's for example go for twelve and half OK.
Let's see what's going to happen.
He should be.
You should be in a lunchtime with the cafeteria which makes sense because now between 12 and 13 that's
where the lunchtime cafeteria time is right.
Okay let's test it one more time.
Take it.
Ryan let's add the why escape percentage one two three and ask what's the time right now please enter
a 24 hour format.
So when I say OK maybe let's try.
Let's try 14 which is 2 o'clock then a rally should be a group meeting group project meeting room E..
So let's go ahead group project meeting room.
OK.
So our code actually works great right now.
All right.
So I'm gonna leave you guys for a very quick challenge okay.
And I want you guys here to make the username not case sensitive.
So let's say they use user insert for example are y n uppercase or lowercase or whatever.
You know the user of the system will stick and accept it.
Okay.
You might need to do a little bit of research or refer back to the basics of the programming in the
pita section.
We actually covered that before.
Okay.
It's kind of an operation that we could do to the string to actually convert it into a lowercase in
a way.
Okay.
And that's the first challenge.
And the next minute challenge that I want us to do.
And I want you to instead of doing the filing operation here in the main I want you guys to do the file
operation is how to open the file and actually printed in inside the function.
So the planner.
Okay we're gonna call it day let's say day planner and let's say and lecture notes for example like
lecture fetching for instance is to obtain the lecture notes and we want to do the file operation within
our function to.
All right.
Please go ahead guys and pause the video and these do these two challenges and see you guys after the
challenge.
All right.
I hope you guys were able to figure out the challenge.
So what I ask you guys to do is to make the system a little bit more robust.
All right so let's let's go ahead and see what they mean by this.
So let's run this one first and if we go here if we run it OK I'm asking to enter user name so if I
see Ryan for example our way in all uppercase OK.
And I asked enter let's say a password.
All right.
So the password is gonna be like why ASCII percentage.
1 2 3.
They mean well username and password is not correct even though the name is pretty much the same.
However here this was you know very case set case sensitive or was uppercase and all of them why N has
to be lowercase.
So what we could do here we can say OK instead of having this I'm going to make it all lowercase.
All right so all of them are gonna be right here and whatever the user we're going to be inputting here
what I'm gonna do I'm going to convert it into lower by basically doing dot lower.
And that will convert wherever the user is gonna be inputting here into lowercase.
So when we do the comparison you know if they use it and insert it that's lower case that's fine if
we insert for example all of an uppercase that's fine if we insert the first letter as uppercase that's
fine too.
Let's give it a shot.
Let's run it into user names so can say Ryan.
Well if you guys take a look here you'll find that here I added a line here to print input user name
so you find that the user name he has become becomes lowercase.
Right.
So it just converted whatever the user is going gonna be inputting into lowercase enter your password.
Let's give it a shot wise key percentage 1 2 3 access granted.
What's the time right now.
It's 12 and here you go should be attending computer vision and these are the lecture notes.
All right.
Looks great.
The next challenge that I ask you guys to do is to simply move these commands move the finding operation
into the function.
So after we do this I can just go here and do that here.
That's it.
Let's give it a shot.
So it's run.
That's good looks good.
Let's run.
That's user name.
All uppercase.
I don't care anymore.
OK.
And then I'm going to insert y ASCII percentage 1 2 3.
Time right now.
Let's say it is 8:00 a.m. in the morning and here we go.
You should be attending programming lecture.
And here are the lecture notes.
So we simply can insert as well or the filing operation within the function with no problem.
All right.
And that's pretty much all what I have for this lecture.
I hope you guys enjoyed it and see you guys in future projects.